Our disciple-making work
is a weighty assignment from Jehovah.
But he does not expect us
to accomplish it on our own.
Are you making full use
of the help Jehovah provides?
We know that you will be encouraged
by the following three-part symposium.
Each speaker
will introduce the one to follow.
Brother Robert Ciranko,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
will deliver the first talk entitled
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making
—Accept Jehovah’s Help—
Research Tools.”
Brother Ciranko, you have our full attention.
What would you say?
How important is the disciple-making work?
Well, it is so important
that Jehovah God is directly involved in it.
How do we know?
Turn in your Bibles, please,
to 1 Corinthians 3:9
—1 Corinthians 3:9.
It says: “For we are God’s fellow workers.
You are God’s field under cultivation,
God’s building.”
Just think what a privilege we have to share
with the almighty Creator of the universe
in the work that he considers
so important here on earth.
He allows us to experience the joy
of helping to build people
into disciples of Jesus Christ.
We know from the verses
that come just before verse 9,
that while we plant
and water seeds of Kingdom truth
in the hearts of interested ones,
Jehovah is the one
who makes those seeds grow.
However, knowing this
should not minimize in our minds
the importance of our part
in the disciple-making work.
What we do and how we do it has an impact
on how those seeds of truth will grow.
And Jehovah knows that the more skilled
we become at making disciples,
the more effective
we will be as his fellow workers,
and the more enjoyable
the work will be for us.
To that end, Jehovah equips
us to teach as effectively as possible.
All we have to do is accept his help.
And that is what this symposium is all about:
learning to benefit
from the research tools Jehovah has given us,
the help that is available
from our brothers, and the power of prayer.
Each talk in this symposium
will consider two questions.
First, what help has Jehovah given us?
And second, how can we use that help
to increase our joy in the ministry?
Let’s start by talking about research tools.
What help has Jehovah given us?
He has given us the right tools
—the best tools—for our work.
Foremost of all,
he has dignified us by allowing us
to use his written Word, the Bible,
and that is our most important tool
for the ministry.
Turn to 2 Timothy 3:16, 17
—2 Timothy 3:16, 17.
It says: “All Scripture is inspired of God
“and beneficial for teaching, for reproving,
“for setting things straight,
for disciplining in righteousness,
“so that the man of God
[or woman of God] may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.”
We should want to do all
we can to keep honing our skills
and using the Bible to teach the truth
about God, Christ, and the Kingdom.
And the beauty of using
the Bible is that the message
contained in it can literally change people.
Religious falsehoods and erroneous ideas
have become “strongly entrenched”
in the minds of sincere people.
But the Bible, when used effectively,
can overturn those wrong beliefs.
Why, the Bible
can even help a person understand
his own deepest thoughts and feelings.
One Bible translation
renders that 16th verse by saying:
“The Bible is useful for resetting
the direction of a man’s life.”
Through our own study of the Bible,
we can become skilled
at using the Scriptures in the ministry.
And to help us succeed in this, Jehovah
has given us a variety of research tools
to use in personal study and family worship.
These include the Watchtower Library,
the JW Library® app,
the Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY™,
and the Research Guide.
Jehovah wants us to be skillful
in using the tools he has provided
so that the proverb
will come true for us that says:
“Have you seen a man skillful at his work?
He will stand before kings.”
As you watch the following dramatization,
notice what comes up on Neeta’s Bible study
that challenges her as a teacher,
how she realizes she needs help
to teach effectively,
and what research tool she uses
to prepare for her study with Jade.
. . . making a friend with God.
Yeah, I don’t know how to do that.
Make a friend?
But you’ve done fine with me.
But I can see you—but God, a Friend?
Seriously?
How about what you can see?
What does creation teach us about him?
Um, not much
—maybe evolve or your species dies.
It doesn’t really help.
Well, I’m not talking about evolution.
I’m talking about the things
that God has created.
You don’t suppose he’s got
a little workshop up there building things
one at a time, do you?
In the real world, things evolve.
It’s all random.
I don’t know what that
tells me about him.
I wasn’t ready for this.
Evolution isn’t my strong suit.
I need help.
This could be good:
“Many who believe evolution. . .
ancient tidal pool . . .
chemicals spontaneously assembled . . .”
It’s too deep.
Wait!
Maybe: “What does the evidence reveal? . . .
“For a cell to survive, . . . DNA . . .
“RNA . . . inanimate chemicals. . .
probability . . .”
I’m not sure this is what she needs.
Her real issue
was getting to know
someone that she can’t see.
Maybe that’s the best place to begin.
“One widespread false teaching . . .
“robs people of hope . . . implies
that human life has no purpose . . .”
This could be it; establish the positive:
What creation really says about Jehovah
versus what evolution obscures.
OK, so you got me thinking, . . .
Mm-hm.
. . . and I did some research, . . .
OK. Yeah.
. . . and I think
you’ll really like what I found.
OK.
Come, come, sit down.
OK, let’s do this.
Did you see where Neeta turned for help?
The Research Guide.
With a little bit of searching
and persistence,
she found what she needed.
She got excited about the information
and passed that excitement on to her student.
How can you use
our research tools effectively?
You can use them to help you
to explain and teach the Scriptures.
For example, as with Jade,
your students may be struggling
to understand a Scriptural teaching.
Or you may have a student
who is trying to overcome a personal problem.
Use the tools that Jehovah
has given us to search for an explanation
or an illustration that will help the person.
And you may not even have to do
all the work yourself.
Perhaps you can show
your students how to use our tools
in order to find
the Bible’s answers to their questions.
Do your best, though,
to learn how to use our research tools.
Likely, you already use
JW Library for personal study
and family worship and to prepare
for congregation meetings.
But if you keep up-to-date
with new features in the JW Library app,
you can also use it
to good advantage in your ministry.
There are even features
built into the app that make it possible
for you to save the research
that you have done
so that you can use it again in the future.
What are those features?
Notes and tags
—notes and tags.
Have you learned how to use them?
Well, now you can.
If you have JW Library with you on a device,
open the Bible to 1 Timothy chapter 2
—1 Timothy chapter 2—
and follow along with this tutorial video.
Are you making full use of JW Library®?
Let’s learn how some are using it,
and then practice together.
I create notes in my Bible
for many different reasons.
It could be a good point from a talk,
an illustration to help me
to explain something to a Bible student,
or something for my own meditation.
I highlight the key phrase
and create a note.
Let’s practice together.
If you have JW Library,
find 1 Timothy 2:6 in the Bible.
Now highlight the word “ransom,”
and tap the “Add a note” button.
Then type your comment.
Tapping the note marker in the margin
brings your comment into view.
I’ve created a lot of notes.
I use tags to help me find them again.
For example, whenever I hear a point
that I want to use in the ministry,
I create a note and add a tag
like “prayer,” “ransom,” or “last days.”
Then when I’m in the ministry,
I can quickly find my note.
Let’s practice together.
On the note you just created,
tap the three dots
and then “Edit.”
Now tap the button “Add a tag,”
and enter a tag name.
In this case, type “ransom.”
You can add as many tags as you like.
To find your notes again,
go to the Personal Study tab.
You can type in the Search box,
or you can just tap the tag.
As I read the Bible chapters
for the midweek meeting,
I often come across verses
that I want to understand better.
So I check the Research Guide.
Sometimes I use the points
I find in a comment at the meeting.
Let’s practice together.
Are you still at 1 Timothy chapter 2?
Tap on the number for verse 6,
then tap the Research Guide button
on the menu.
Now you can read information
that explains this verse.
You can even copy a portion
of the research and paste it into your note.
If you are like me, you will probably
have to watch that video a few more times.
If you find it challenging
to learn how to use
some of the features of our tools,
here are two things you can do.
First, ask someone
in your congregation to assist you,
and often the young people can help the most.
Second, go to jw.org®,
scroll to the bottom of any page,
click on JW Library,
and there you will find
more tutorial videos that you can watch.
As announced at the 2018 annual meeting,
our research tools are being redesigned
to be unified and more user-friendly.
Be sure to learn the new features
as they are released.
And may you joyfully work with Jehovah
by using the research tools
he has provided for making disciples.
Brother Joel Dellinger,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now present
the next talk of this symposium,
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making
—Accept Jehovah’s Help—
Our Brothers.”
The Bible identifies a second source
of help that Jehovah has given us
so that we can experience
the joy of making disciples.
That gift is described at 1 Peter 5:9.
Please read that with me
—1 Peter 5:9:
“But take your stand
against him, firm in the faith,
“knowing that the same kind
of sufferings are being experienced
“by the entire association
of your brothers
in the world.”
What hope has Jehovah given us?
It’s our worldwide association
of brothers and sisters.
Just as their example can help us to endure,
our brothers can also help us
meet the challenges in the ministry.
Yes, Jehovah has given us
a large spiritual family,
and that shows that he wants us
to experience the joy of working together.
Now we might be thinking,
‘That’s encouraging, but is it realistic
to think that I can experience the joy
of making a disciple?’
Perhaps you’ve had Bible studies
but none of them have yet progressed
to the point of dedication and baptism.
So you might wonder,
‘Am I really up to that challenge?’
Or maybe you’re a parent
who’s newer in the truth,
and you’re thinking to yourself,
‘How can I reach my child’s heart
and help him or her learn
to love Jehovah as I do?’
Or maybe you’re dealing with poor health
or the effects of old age, and you wonder,
‘Can I have an effective ministry?’
Brothers and sisters,
we want you to take heart.
Jehovah has provided help,
and help may be nearer than you think.
To highlight the help
that Jehovah gives to all of us,
for a few moments,
let’s consider the apostle Paul’s experience.
When we think of the apostle Paul,
what comes to mind?
Perhaps a very hardworking, energetic brother
who traveled extensively as a missionary.
And can there be any doubt
that Paul’s ministry was a complete success?
But was Paul’s success
the result of his efforts alone?
No.
Paul needed
and humbly accepted help from others.
For example, you may recall reading
in Acts chapters 16 and 17,
how the man Silas traveled with Paul.
On that trip, in the city of Philippi,
Paul and Silas shared the joy
of helping an entire family
become baptized disciples.
Now, there’s something very interesting
in the Bible’s record of that account:
Every time Paul is mentioned,
Silas is mentioned as well.
In fact, the expression “Paul and Silas”
occurs six times in quick succession.
Well, what do we learn from that?
Clearly, Paul had help in his ministry.
He did not go it alone.
Now, young ones, a question for you:
Can you think of another close friend of Paul
who often traveled with him?
You got it right, Timothy.
For about 14 years, the two of them
worked together in Jehovah’s service.
Now, did Paul, the more experienced man,
really view Timothy as a helper,
as someone who could assist him?
Yes, he did.
As Paul neared the end
of his life, for example,
he wrote to Timothy, his younger friend,
and said: “Do your utmost
to come to me shortly.”
Paul was not too proud to ask for help.
In Acts chapter 18,
the Bible tells us about a married couple
(Aquila and his wife, Priscilla, or Prisca)
who supported Paul.
In the city of Corinth,
they welcomed Paul not only into their home
but also into the business of making tents.
Now, can you imagine
how much joy these three must have had
as they worked together
not only in the secular trade of making tents
but also in advancing
the Kingdom good news?
Now, when Paul left Corinth,
do you know what happened
with Aquila and Priscilla?
They followed him to Ephesus.
There, Aquila and Priscilla used their home
as a meeting place
for the local congregation.
Their helpful services continued.
At Acts 18:24,
we learned that this couple
became acquainted with Apollos
—a Christian from Egypt who,
according to the Scriptural account,
was an “eloquent man”
and “well-versed in the Scriptures.”
Even so, Apollos needed some help
because he had some gaps
in his understanding.
So, what did helpful Priscilla and Aquila do?
Acts 18:26 tells us:
“They took [Apollos] into their company
and explained the way
of God more accurately to him.”
Now think of that for a moment.
This humble couple, tentmakers,
were not intimidated by Apollos.
To them, he was a brother
—a part of the family.
And out of brotherly love,
they took the initiative
to give him the help that he needed.
Well, in thinking about Paul
and how he viewed those that assisted him,
how do you think he felt
about this beautiful couple?
Please open your Bible with me
to Paul’s own words that Jehovah preserved
at Romans 16:3, 4.
That’s Romans 16:3, 4;
let’s read it together:
“Give my greetings
to Prisca [or, Priscilla] and Aquila,
“my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
“who have risked their own necks for me
and to whom not only I
but also all the congregations
of the nations give thanks.”
Deep appreciation
is what Paul felt for this loyal couple.
He viewed them as his fellow workers.
Now, what does all of what we’ve discussed
tell us about the apostle Paul?
Clearly, the success
he enjoyed in his ministry
was not the result of his efforts alone.
Jehovah gave Paul the help he needed
to have an effective ministry,
and that help came in the form
of many brothers and sisters.
Dear brothers and sisters,
Jehovah has given you and given me
the same help—our brothers.
In the following dramatization,
please notice how Neeta benefits
from the help of another sister.
I’ve tried everything
to get Jade to a meeting . . .
It’s every Thursday and Sunday,
and I think
—I think you’d really enjoy it.
I can’t promise anything.
It would be nice if you could come.
I might just text her,
actually, just to remind her.
OK, yeah, excellent.
Have you tried bringing
other people on the study?
. . . well, maybe not everything.
What are you doing
tomorrow afternoon?
Hi.
This is Abigay.
Oh.
Hi, Abigay.
Sorry, let me kill that.
It’s been a long time since I hear them!
You know that band?
Know them?
I used to see them all the time
before I became a Witness.
No way!
You like that kind of music?
You don’t believe me?
Oh, this bag, it’s so big!
I can’t find anything.
Abigay?
Ah, when I was young . . .
You were in a band?
“The sun shines so sweet.”
Ah, I love that song!
I actually have that vinyl.
So I’ll be gone next week.
OK.
But I’ll have someone else
take care of the study, OK?
Did you notice how Neeta responded
to the suggestion that was given her?
Applying that counsel brought good results.
Like Neeta, we may need specific help
to accomplish our ministry fully.
For example, when it comes
to making return visits
and conducting Bible studies,
could some brothers and sisters
in your congregation
help you to improve your skills?
Likely, all of us would benefit
by reaching out to such publishers
who have gained experience
and skill in those aspects of the ministry.
What if you’re a parent
who wants to instill love for Jehovah
in the heart of your child?
How about asking some other parents
or grandparents for advice?
If they’ve had success raising their children
to love Jehovah
and become baptized disciples,
they will certainly be happy
to share their experience with you.
And what if we have
age limitations or health concerns,
we may need practical assistance
that accommodates our needs.
For example, at many Bethel homes,
elderly and infirm brothers and sisters
are still having a regular
and productive share in the ministry.
Do you know how?
Elders at Bethel
arrange for younger publishers
to join the elderly ones
in letter writing and phone witnessing.
One sister by the name of Nancy,
who was nearly 90 years old
at the time, said this:
“I don’t view letter writing
as just stuffing envelopes.
“This is field service.
People need to know the truth!”
How encouraging!
And did you know that in less than a year,
one group of precious older ones
devoted over 1,000 hours to the ministry,
wrote over 6,000 letters,
made over 2,000 phone calls,
and placed over 6,000 pieces of literature?
What good was accomplished
by working together,
and what joy they experienced!
Of course, we have to admit
that it takes humility
to acknowledge that we need help.
But in this, we can learn from Apollos.
Though eloquent
and though well-versed in the Scriptures,
he accepted the help that he needed.
As a result, he benefited
and all those that he would teach
thereafter benefited.
So here’s the point:
Can you think of someone
like Priscilla or Aquila
who could give you the help you need?
If so, why not explain your needs
and ask that person
to join you in the ministry
or on Bible studies.
Now, if you’ve been serving
Jehovah for a time,
are you in a position to help others?
If so, we encourage you to be observant
and take the initiative to offer assistance.
If you see that a brother
or sister would benefit
from a kind suggestion, don’t hold back.
At an appropriate time,
you might begin the conversation
in a friendly way by saying:
‘May I offer you a suggestion?’
or ‘Here’s what I try to do.’
Remember, if we’re kind
and thoughtful like Aquila and Priscilla,
likely our words and example
will prove to be a blessing
to help our brothers find joy
in making disciples too.
Well, in the second part of this symposium,
what have we learned?
First, our brothers are a gift from Jehovah
to help us make disciples.
And second, when we
work together and support one another,
all of us can find
great joy in our precious ministry.
Now Brother Gerrit Lösch,
a member of the Governing Body,
will consider the third
and final talk of this symposium,
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making
—Accept Jehovah’s Help—
Prayer.”
“Help!”
No doubt, you have sometime in your life
heard somebody call out “Help!”
Perhaps you yourself
have called out “Help!” to Jehovah.
At Psalm 30:10, David once sang:
“O Jehovah, become my helper.”
Jehovah becomes our Helper
not only when we are in danger.
He provides help in many positive ways
in everyday life.
What help does Jehovah provide for us?
First, find with me
Revelation 14:6.
For one thing, Jehovah provides
his holy angels to support
the worldwide preaching work.
At Revelation 14:6, John recorded:
“And I saw another angel
flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news to declare
“to those who dwell on the earth,
to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
It is not just one angel that is active
in support of the preaching work.
Many angels are involved in it.
If it were not for the help
and direction of the angels,
we would sometimes overlook
somebody with a good heart
when we go out and preach.
Second, Jehovah has also given
us his holy spirit,
the fruitage of which makes us
more effective teachers
and helps us to draw
sheeplike ones to the truth.
Third, Jehovah has given us
as a help the privilege of prayer.
He gets personally involved
in our activities.
Bible teachers and students alike
need Jehovah’s help.
Psalm 127:1 says:
“Unless Jehovah builds the house,
it is in vain that its builders
work hard on it.”
Fourth, Jehovah gives us
also the needed wisdom.
It is wisdom to pray
for “the wisdom from above”
mentioned at James 3:17.
Last, Jehovah also gives us
the needed strength,
which helps us a lot when we are tired
or discouraged or have a lot of work.
First Peter 4:11 refers
to “the strength that God supplies.”
Yes, we can pray for Jehovah’s help,
for wisdom, and for the necessary strength.
In the following dramatization,
notice the power of praying
in behalf of a Bible student.
“How long would Jesus need to wait
before Jehovah would make him King?”
Good, so “how do we know that Jesus
“did not become King
when he was on earth
or immediately after he was resurrected?”
Oh, uh, because he didn’t.
Well, what did Jesus
teach his disciples to pray?
Oh, um, yep—well, I know the obvious.
“Let your Kingdom come,”
implied future tense.
But how can we know for sure
what’s going on in heaven?
Maybe it would help
if we reviewed the cited scriptures here.
Before you leave, a suggestion:
Maybe if you were to study ahead of time?
I really . . .
How about no.
I’m really swamped.
I know you’re busy; we all are.
You have no clue, do you?
I have to go.
I didn’t know what to do next.
I thought she
was making our study a priority,
but maybe she wasn’t.
Exams next week—it’s do or die time.
Then I remembered 1 Corinthians 3:6
says that ‘God keeps making it grow.’
So I asked him to help Jade
and then left it with him.
Look, I need to apologize.
Forget it, you were stressed.
Yeah, but there’s more.
Inside I knew you were right;
it’s just the last thing I wanted to hear.
Stop, really.
How about I show you how I prepare?
OK.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Thank you, Jehovah.
OK.
How can prayer help us
in making disciples?
Please locate with me
Philippians 1:9, 10.
“And this is what I continue praying,
that your love may abound
“still more and more with accurate knowledge
“and full discernment;
“that you may make sure
of the more important things,
“so that you may be flawless
and not stumbling others
up to the day of Christ.”
Just as Paul prayed
that the love
of the Philippians “may abound
. . . with accurate knowledge
and full discernment,” we can pray
for the same in behalf
of our Bible students.
Pray also for the holy spirit
to guide your thoughts and actions
and the ones of your students.
Pray from your heart,
confident that Jehovah will hear you.
Psalm 65:2 says: “O Hearer of prayer,
to you people of all sorts will come.”
Teach your Bible students how to pray,
not only encourage them to do so.
Urge them to do so!
Learning to pray will help
your students to form
a close friendship with Jehovah.
Pray with your Bible students and for them,
using or spelling out their name.
Be confident that Jehovah
will answer your prayers and theirs.
Please turn to Acts 10:9.
Peter was a fine example
of one who prayed.
Acts 10:9 says:
“The next day as they
were continuing on their journey
“and were approaching the city,
Peter went up to the housetop
about the sixth hour to pray.”
In the same chapter,
Cornelius was also a fine example.
At Acts 10:30, 31,
he reported to Peter:
“Four days ago counting from this hour,
“I was praying in my house at the ninth hour;
“just then a man in bright clothing
stood in front of me
“and said: ‘Cornelius, your prayer
has been favorably heard,
and your gifts of mercy
have been remembered before God.’”
Jehovah answered
Peter’s prayer and Cornelius’ prayer.
Jehovah has given us what we need
to increase our joy in making disciples.
When a report came to John that Jesus
was making many disciples,
John did not become jealous.
At John chapter 3, he replied:
“This joy of mine has been made full.
That one must go on increasing,
but I must go on decreasing.”
When we do not make disciples personally,
we can still rejoice
with those who do make them.
The angels rejoice although they
do not personally make disciples.
At Luke 15:7, Jesus said:
“There will be more joy in heaven
over one sinner who repents
than over 99 righteous ones
who have no need of repentance.”
We also rejoice because we have
the Bible and powerful research tools
in print and electronically
as well as in audio format.
We rejoice because we have
our brotherhood to support and assist us.
We can ask them for suggestions,
and we can invite them to accompany us
in the ministry, even if it is
only by computer tie-in
or telephone witnessing.
If we cannot meet together physically
for a congregation meeting,
we can arrange for tie-ins with others
and hear and see them.
It warms our heart.
Don’t forget the provisions
from Jehovah,
which we mentioned
at the beginning of this talk.
First, we have the privilege of prayer;
second, the help of God’s angels;
third, the support of the holy spirit;
fourth, “the wisdom
from above”; and fifth,
the spiritual and emotional strength
that God supplies.
Jehovah has given us all of this
because he cares about us
and about those we teach.
We will have great joy in the ministry
if we take full advantage
of Jehovah’s help.
Lastly, we want to mention
something very precious
that brings us deep inner joy,
Psalm 25:14:
“Close friendship with Jehovah
belongs to those
who fear him” and pray to him.
May your joyous friendship with Jehovah
—and the joyous friendship
that disciples
have with Jehovah—
last for an eternity!
Thank you, brothers, for drawing
our attention to the help Jehovah provides.
The time has now arrived
for the baptism discourse.
We invite all baptism candidates
to pay particular attention.
The day of one’s baptism
is an especially joyful one.
But it is also just a beginning.
How can you candidates for baptism gain
even greater joy in the days ahead?
Listen closely to the answer
presented in this discourse entitled
“How Your Baptism Leads to More Happiness.”
The talk will be given by a helper
to the Teaching Committee,
Brother William Malenfant.
Among the many things
that Jesus Christ revealed to his disciples
was this very old and fundamental truth:
“There is more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”
Jesus learned this truth
from his Father, Jehovah God,
who is the greatest example of a happy Giver.
At Genesis 1:27,
we see clear evidence
of Jehovah’s generosity.
Genesis 1:27 says:
“And God went on to create
the man in his image,
“in God’s image he created him;
male and female he created them.”
This verse describes humans
as a unique creation,
different in many ways
from all other forms of life on earth.
We are made in Jehovah’s image.
Jehovah God designed us
to reflect his personality.
We have within us
the capability of cultivating
the divine quality of generosity
and experiencing the happiness
that comes from giving.
We really do get pleasure
out of giving to family, friends,
even to people we don’t know.
It makes us feel good to give to others.
However,
the most important giving that we can do
and the key to happiness in life
is to give our Creator what he deserves.
Revelation 4:11
sets forth clearly the things
that Jehovah God deserves,
and it shows the reason why
we should give such things to God.
Read with me Revelation 4:11.
It says:
“You are worthy, Jehovah our God,
“to receive the glory
and the honor and the power,
“because you created all things,
“and because of your will
they came into existence
and were created.”
We exist because Jehovah created us.
That fact makes him worthy
to receive from us glory,
honor, and power.
That’s what you candidates for baptism
have made the decision to do,
to give Jehovah God
glory and honor and power.
You do this by praising his name,
by obeying him,
and by using your life
—your power, energy,
and your whole strength—
to do his will.
By getting baptized
in symbol of your dedication to God,
you are declaring publicly
that you have given yourself to Jehovah.
You have made a gift to God
of your heart, mind, and strength
—your very being.
And you have made this decision
because you have come to know Jehovah
and you love him.
We are happy
to acknowledge your decision
to give yourselves to God,
and we wholeheartedly welcome
you baptism candidates.
Giving of yourself in baptism
will lead to great happiness
because it opens up opportunities
to give of yourself in ways that truly count.
Your baptism brings you
into a special relationship with Jehovah.
It allows you
to participate in doing his will
with his approval
because you are obeying him.
You become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
qualified to present the evidence
that Jehovah
is the only “living and true God”!
Your dedication and baptism
opens the door for you
to become a part
of the worldwide brotherhood,
a true modern-day miracle.
There is nothing anywhere on this planet
that can compare to the visible part
of Jehovah’s organization,
made up of people from all nations,
tribes, languages, and backgrounds
—people who really do love God
and love one another.
You have more opportunities now
than ever before to give
and receive encouragement.
For example,
think of the encouragement
you get from the brotherhood,
in fulfillment of Jesus’ promise
at Mark 10:29, 30.
In those two verses,
Jesus assured his disciples
that they would “get 100 times more”
of what they left behind in this old world,
“and in the coming system of things,”
he said that they
would have “everlasting life.”
It must have given Jesus
pleasure to share
that wonderful and encouraging promise
with his disciples,
and it most certainly made
the disciples happy.
That’s how it is, isn’t it?
Giving and making other people happy
makes us happy.
The happiness you can experience
by helping others is unlimited
because Jehovah focuses
on your motive for giving
—why you give.
Jehovah never takes
for granted what you do,
and he will always reward you for it.
Read with me Hebrews 6:10,
and take note of the fact
that Jehovah God
remembers why you give
and what you do
to advance Kingdom interests
—Hebrews 6:10.
It reads:
“For God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work
“and the love you showed
for his name by ministering
and continuing to minister
to the holy ones.”
As the scripture shows,
Jehovah won’t forget what you do
because you are motivated
by love for his name.
Let’s now consider more closely two areas
in which baptism broadens
your opportunities to give:
first, making disciples,
and second, helping your brothers
and sisters in the faith.
The foremost way
for you and for me to give
is by sharing
the good news of the Kingdom
and making disciples.
Jesus’ exhortation to make disciples
is found at Matthew 28:19, 20.
The commission to make disciples
was given not only
to the first-century Christians
but to all of Jesus’ disciples,
right down to the time of the end
in which we are living.
Think for a moment
about what is involved in disciple-making.
It’s the result of preaching and teaching.
And you know that it takes time
to prepare for and take part in the ministry.
The sample presentations
we see in the midweek meetings
are not complicated,
and it’s good that they
don’t change too often.
But to have a presentation well in mind
and be prepared for the field service,
you may need to give up some time
you formerly spent on yourself.
It takes time to learn a presentation
and to become familiar with it.
But taking the time is worth it.
It’s a good feeling
to be prepared and ready to preach
—to have something to say and a video
to show whenever you have the opportunity.
There are sheep out there,
but we don’t know where they are,
and so we try to call on everyone.
People need to hear about the Kingdom,
whether they accept the message or not.
So don’t become discouraged
if you don’t have
the kind of results you anticipated.
Just keep on preaching,
and you will be blessed.
When you preach,
you are engaging
in the most important work
being done today
—announcing God’s Kingdom—
the fulfillment of Matthew 24:14:
“And this good news of the Kingdom
“will be preached in all the inhabited earth
“for a witness to all the nations,
and then the end will come.”
You are successful
in obeying Jesus’ words
to preach the Kingdom message
even when people reject the good news.
You can’t control how people respond,
but you do not let up in preaching
the lifesaving message of truth.
Honest hearts respond
to the Kingdom message.
Be courageous and trust in Jehovah
and his powerful spirit to help you.
Your work will have
everlasting results for you personally
and for those who listen to you
and embrace the truth.
The apostle Paul tells us
at 1 Corinthians 3:9
that by sharing in the ministry,
you become Jehovah’s fellow worker.
Can you imagine?
Jehovah invites imperfect humans
to cooperate with him,
the almighty Creator,
in a special work that he
considers highly important.
Your faith and hope
become stronger as you give
by sharing with others
what you know about Jehovah
and the Kingdom.
Keep in mind
the simple and enriching truth stated
at Proverbs 11:24;
it applies both materially and spiritually.
That’s Proverbs 11:24,
and it reads:
“One gives generously
“and ends up with more;
“another withholds what should be given,
but he comes to poverty.”
No matter how much
you give to Jehovah,
you will always get back
more than you give.
You can’t outgive Jehovah!
Isn’t that wonderful?
Seize every opportunity
to give of yourself in the ministry,
and your giving
will continue to bring you happiness.
The more involved you are,
the happier you will be.
Engage in the ministry
every week if at all possible.
Also, think seriously about reaching out
to serve as an auxiliary pioneer
or a regular pioneer.
Talk to pioneers about the joy
they get from the ministry.
It’s contagious!
Many doors to wonderful experiences
and blessings
open to those who reach out
to expand their ministry.
Your regular participation
in the preaching work
allows you the opportunity
to develop skill in using the Bible,
starting conversations,
and in using the Teaching Toolbox.
All of us enjoy doing
the things that we do well;
when you’re good at something,
usually you like doing it.
Work at improving
the quality of your ministry.
As you do, your joy will increase.
One way joy increases
is by participating in various forms
of the ministry
—public witnessing,
house to house, informal,
telephone witnessing, and letter writing.
Also, you can develop
your skills in using the Bible,
your tablet, or cell phone
to bring up scriptures or videos.
Take the time to practice
starting conversations
and using the Teaching Toolbox.
It does take practice
to find exactly what you’re looking for
and then to use it to give a witness.
Approaching strangers
and engaging them
in conversation about the Bible
can be a challenge.
Why?
One reason is because some of us
are more reserved than others.
We are pleased to introduce
Sister Loraini Jackson.
Sister Jackson has been serving
for many years in special full-time service
and visiting a variety of lands
with her husband, Geoffrey.
Sister Jackson,
at first,
when you learned the truth
in Fiji as a young person,
how did you feel
about sharing in the ministry?
Brother Malenfant,
I am shy and reserved by nature.
And I remember
that when I first learned
that Jehovah wants us
to preach his good news,
I was excited,
but even more so, I was terrified.
I understood that preaching
would mean approaching strangers
and trying to have
conversations with them,
often when they least expected it.
And, really,
all I wanted to do is just be quiet
and be on my own.
I think there are many brothers
and sisters who feel the same way.
What helped you to share
in the ministry more fully?
I think the main thing
that has helped me
is relying on Jehovah’s help
through prayer.
Like many others, I talk to Jehovah
constantly about my struggles
—the struggle to say the right thing,
the struggle to not show fear
in my manner or my voice,
the struggle to remember
the right scriptures to use
and to use them well
and, of course, if someone is rude,
to try to remain calm and kind.
Your words are appreciated.
Tell us, what are some of the things
that bring you joy in the ministry?
The things that bring me joy
are the very things
I could not have done
without Jehovah’s help
—things like conversing freely
with people (strangers)
about Jehovah and the Bible
and then having the opportunity
to see people’s eyes light up
when they read or understand
a Bible verse for the first time
(I think those are really precious)
and, of course, helping a Bible student
work through a problem
and then also trying
to become their friend.
I think things like these really show
Jehovah’s power and support.
And all I can do is thank him for them.
That’s very encouraging for all of us,
Sister Jackson.
My final question is,
How do you feel about participating
in various aspects of the ministry?
I know I still lack so much,
but I’m so grateful
for the opportunities I’ve been given
to participate
in various aspects of the ministry
because they’ve allowed me
to help others start their own journeys
to becoming Jehovah’s friend,
and they’ve also given me an opportunity
to work with Jehovah
and really rely on him.
I feel the ministry helps one,
especially if one is shy,
to focus on others,
on Jehovah, on Jesus,
on people and their needs
and not so much on one’s own limitations.
It’s true,
I’m still very reserved and shy.
And as those close to me know,
some days are good,
and other days I feel
like hiding somewhere
and not saying much.
However, the ministry
has helped me manage my shyness
and has helped train me
to accept other assignments of service.
I am convinced that anyone,
whether timid or otherwise,
can rejoice in the ministry,
provided that they
rely constantly on Jehovah
and focus on him.
Thank you very much, Sister Jackson,
for such encouraging expressions of faith.
Jehovah is there to help us
if we trust in him
and put forth a sincere effort
to give of ourselves
in the preaching activity.
The second way to give is by helping
“those related to us in the faith.”
Paul wrote about this at Galatians 6:10.
It reads:
“So, then,
as long as we have the opportunity,
“let us work what is good toward all,
but especially toward those
related to us in the faith.”
Yes, you are part of a beautiful family.
Willingly use your time, energy,
and resources to assist
your fellow believers
and “work what is good toward [them].”
Think about your brothers
in the congregation
and identify those whom you
can assist in practical ways.
Ask yourself,
‘Is there someone in the congregation
‘that I could help by giving
that person a ride to a meeting
or perhaps running
an errand for him or for her?’
Perhaps visit the elderly
and offer to assist them in practical ways.
We all want to show personal interest
in our brothers and sisters
and be a source
of encouragement to them.
Also, we want to support
relief efforts for needy Christians.
Natural disasters occur,
and there is sickness as well as poverty,
among many other things.
Doesn’t it thrill you
when you read how
the brothers respond generously
to assist fellow believers
who are in need?
At 2 Corinthians 8:1-4,
Paul expresses deep appreciation
for the brothers in Macedonia,
and notice why Paul felt that way
—2 Corinthians 8:1-4:
“Now we want you to know, brothers,
“about the undeserved kindness of God
“that has been granted
to the congregations of Macedonia.
“During a great test under affliction,
“their abundance of joy
and their deep poverty
“made the riches
of their generosity abound.
“For it was according to their means,
“yes, I testify,
it was even beyond their means,
“while they on their own initiative
“kept earnestly begging us
for the privilege of kindly giving,
to have a share
in the relief ministry for the holy ones.”
The brothers in Macedonia
took the initiative
to provide loving help
to their spiritual family
in spite of their own poverty.
What a fine example for us to be generous
and ready to assist
our spiritual brothers and sisters
whatever way we can!
Giving to others
can be done in different ways.
With that thought in mind,
we are happy to interview
Sister Penny Pierce.
Sister Pierce,
you have raised a family;
you’ve spent decades
in special full-time service
and traveled to a variety of lands
with your husband, Guy,
who was a member of the Governing Body.
And, like Dorcas,
you have a reputation
for “[abounding] in good deeds
and gifts of mercy.”
Tell us, Sister Pierce,
what motivates you to assist others?
Well, the answer is found
at 1 Chronicles 29:14, where it says:
“For everything is from you,
and we have given to you
what comes from your own hand.”
So anything that I may give
actually comes from Jehovah.
Recently, with the coronavirus,
we’ve seen an outpouring
of Jehovah’s people giving.
We all have given time and energy,
emotions, a listening ear.
And video chatting
—everyone (young and old)
gave love, faith, and trust.
And it didn’t cost anything.
I thought,
‘Jehovah is doing wonderful things
in the middle of a tragic pandemic.’
What you said
is truly practical and very helpful.
Sister Pierce,
please tell us the experience you had
when you hosted brothers and sisters
during a special preaching campaign.
Well, at times, we have
the opportunity to help materially too.
Some years ago,
when the family was home,
we had 30 people
coming to stay at our home.
They were going to preach to refugees.
I had one bathroom,
and I had 25 dollars,
which I spent completely on food.
Now I had zero.
We never told anyone
that we didn’t have money.
I knew they didn’t have money too.
We had a wonderful time!
When the friends left Sunday night,
I had more food than when they came.
That food lasted us for ten days,
to the end of the month.
But I worried about the effect
on my teenage sons.
So I asked one how he felt.
He said,
“I know you have a jar of flour and oil.”
I didn’t worry anymore.
Jehovah certainly blessed you.
Tell us how you view
what you did to host the friends
that came to preach in your area.
Many of these acts
of kindness that I did
were very small to me,
but often I didn’t know the big impact
it would have on their lives.
That’s when you realize
you’ve had the privilege
of working with holy spirit.
It’s nothing I did;
it’s what Jehovah did.
That’s beautiful, Sister Pierce.
Now, we would like to hear
a final expression from you
of the joy that you
receive personally from giving.
One never gives to Jehovah
without receiving back a hundred fold.
It may not come from the same source,
but it will come.
Jehovah promises at Acts 20:35:
“There is more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”
I have to admit,
Jehovah spoils me with blessings.
Thank you very much,
Sister Pierce.
Jehovah has certainly blessed you
for your generosity
and your warm Christian hospitality.
Helping one another
strengthens the bonds of the brotherhood.
And there is nothing like knowing
that your brothers really do love you.
That’s how the brothers
in Jerusalem felt when they were in need
and received loving assistance
from the brothers in Corinth.
Please turn to 2 Corinthians 9:11-14.
This is where the apostle Paul describes
the reaction
of the needy brothers in Jerusalem
to the generosity
of the brothers in Corinth.
That’s 2 Corinthians 9:11-14.
And this is what Paul wrote:
“In everything you are being enriched
“for every sort of generosity,
“which produces through us
an expression of thanks to God;
“because the ministry
of this public service
“is not only to provide well
for the needs of the holy ones
“but also to be rich
in many expressions of thanks to God.
“Through the proof
that this relief ministry gives,
“they [that is, the holy ones
in Jerusalem] glorify God
“because you are submissive
to the good news about the Christ,
“as you publicly declared,
“and because you are generous
in your contribution to them and to all.
“And with supplication for you,
“they express affection for you
“because of the surpassing
undeserved kindness of God
upon you.”
The brothers in Jerusalem
glorified Jehovah,
not just because they received
some material provisions,
but rather, it was
because the brothers in Corinth,
who for the most part
were new in the Christian faith,
were motivated by love
to send material help.
Yes, the truth was in their hearts
and made them cheerful givers
to their brothers in Jerusalem.
So they all were happy
and felt Jehovah’s love and approval.
You baptism candidates will rejoice
as you sense and are convinced
that Jehovah is pleased with what you do.
Proverbs 19:17 tells us
how Jehovah views
unselfish giving to those in need.
It says:
“The one showing favor
to the lowly
“is lending to Jehovah,
and He will repay him for what he does.”
Can you imagine “lending to Jehovah”?
When we give spiritual or material help
to our brothers in need,
Jehovah sees and views it
as a loan to him.
Remember, you can’t outgive Jehovah.
By giving to others and refreshing them,
the giver, in turn, will benefit himself.
As Proverbs 11:25 says:
“The generous person will prosper,
and whoever refreshes others
will himself be refreshed.”
Today you feel happy
because you are giving
of yourself to Jehovah
to serve him forever.
You make us happy
by making that decision.
We exhort you to maintain your happiness
by doing what you
can reasonably do to help others
by giving both in the ministry
and in the congregation.
Jehovah will give back to you
in more ways than you can imagine.
May the way in which you live
as dedicated servants of Jehovah
reflect forever the fundamental truth
revealed by Jesus:
“There is  more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”
Thank you, Brother Malenfant.
This year, the circumstances
for baptism will vary in each location.
Many of you are watching
this broadcast from a private home.
Possibly others of you are able
to gather at a Kingdom Hall.
In any event, your elders
have made suitable provisions
in accord with local circumstances
for candidates to be baptized
after the conclusion of this session.
As soon as we finish singing
song number 79 together,
baptism candidates in your congregations
will have an opportunity
to make a public declaration of their faith
by answering the two questions
posed by a local elder,
after which he will offer the prayer.
Please be assured that the brothers
at the branch office look forward
to receiving your reports
about these baptisms
from the circuit overseers.
And now let us all
stand and sing together
song number 79,
“Teach Them to Stand Firm.”